Q 1. find 5th highest salary in different way? (2 ways)

query : 
1st way 
	select emp_sal
	from employee e1
	where 4 = (select count(DISTINCT(EMP_SAL))
			from employee e2
			where e1.emp_sal < e2.emp_sal);

 
2nd way 

	SELECT emp_Sal
	FROM (SELECT emp_sal, ROW_NUMBER() OVER (ORDER BY salary DESC) as row_num
              FROM employee) ranked
	WHERE row_num = 5;
	

 Q 2. Why View performance is slow? What we should do to increase the performance of the view.

	View performance is slower because view is a logical table and it does not has storage so that in execution time it goes to view table first then it goes to actual table(that is many 	tables) so it take longer that's why performance is slow in view.

To increase performance of view : 
	

Q 3. List the Query execution order.
	from 
	where
	group by
	having
	select
	order by

Q 4. What 4 steps every query goes through before it shows the results to us?

	parsing, syntax, optimization execution


Q 5. how to find if a column has an index or not ?

	select *
	from user_ind_columns
	where table_name = 'emp';

	
Q 6. Write a query where you use case statement

my answer : select 
	count(case (when gender='F' then 1 end) as female_count, 
	count(case when gender = 'M' then 1 end) as male_count      
	from employee;

correction : 
	select dept_id,
	count(case when gender = 'F' then 1 end) as female_cnt,
	count(case when gender = 'M' then 1 end) as male_cnt
	from employee1
	group by dept_id;

Q 7. 	webvisit
		 visit_id site
	100      www.google.com
	101      www.facebook.com
	100      www.google.com
	Delete the duplicate records in webvisit table

my answer : 
	delete * 
	from emp                      
	where rowed in (select min(rowid) 
			from emp);
correction: 
	delete 
	from webvisit 
	where rowId not in (select max(rowid) 
				from webvisit 
				group by visit_id,site);

Q 8. What is the difference between synonyms and views?

my answer: synonyms is an alter name for table while view is logical table which is extracted from one or more table

correction : synonyms can be created on all db objects
		while views can be created only on tables.


Q 9. Why union query runs slower (usually) compared to union all queries?

my answer : 

correction :	because it takes all records unique and duplicates and it remove duplicate records and it gives unique records only.

Q 10. What does implicit cursor mean in the database world?

correction : in implicit cursor if we have any error in a select statement the server will take acre about that error.

Q 11. What is the difference between synonyms and views?

my answer: synonyms is an alter name for table while view is logical table which is extracted from one or more table

correction : synonyms can be created on all db objects
		where as views can be created only on tables.

Q 12. Select substr(‘dhivakar’,-1,-1) from dual -- What is the output

	 Error


Q 13. I have 2 emp tables with 5 records each. Name like emp1 and emp2. Now i delete the emp1 records and truncate the emp2 records after that I rollback this transaction. How many rows you will have in emp1 and emp2


Q 14. 1.       I have an emp table with 5 records. I write a following query what will be the output.
	Select ename from emp where rownum = 3?

	Null/ no record 


Q 15. I have an dept table .In that dept table I have columns like deptno with primary key and dname with unique key. After that I insert vaue like this (insert into dept values(10,’’); insert into dept values(20,’’);), Does it allows null values second time ?

	yes


Q 16. what are the types of statements in TCL you know
	rollback , commit, savepoint